---
title: "Cybernetics in Hong Kong"
description: "An exploration of how a cybernetic revolution might change the Sham Shui Po district of Hong Kong"
tags: ["architecture", "university", "game development"]
slug: "cybernetics-in-hong-kong"
date: 2020-05-05
featuredImg: "./images/screenshot-1051.png"
---


With the frequent advancements in cybernetics, prosthetics are predicted to eventually outperform human biological bodies within our lifetime, and as a result even those who do not have any disability will opt to replace their organic body parts with synthetic alternatives. This will drastically alter our physical capabilities, which will also mean a profound change to how we interact and traverse our environment, and so our environment will have to adapt to, and possibly enhance, these interactions. This is particularly the case in dense urban areas, due to the necessity to design anthropometrically to accommodate more people. But despite this massive change to our bodies, our minds will remain the same, with the same desires still based on instincts we have had since we were cavemen. We will always seek space and privacy, regardless of whether this has negative consequences. Hong Kong is a dense urban area where people lack space and privacy. The Sham Shui Po district exemplifies the space and privacy inequality, as large numbers of ‘cage homes’ are located adjacent to a luxury high-rise residential complex. The thesis follows Sham Shui Po at various stages as it undergoes a cybernetic revolution. In this imagining, future companies initially sell a variety of human augments, while others sell their respective urban infrastructure. At this stage, the existing architecture in Sham Shui Po is adapted to suit the wide variety of new human capabilities. However, over time a single augment design monopolises the market, similar to how all mobile phones converged toward a single design. This then allows for all infrastructure and other aspects of human life to be designed around a specific set of capabilities, leading to a complete reinvention of the district and the definition of the city block.